hardware/calculations/voltage_divider.md, before:

# Voltage Divider Calculations

## Assumptions
- Maximum input voltage: 15 V DC
- MCU: ATmega328P (Seeeduino Lotus)
- ADC reference voltage: 5 V (default)
- Target ADC max input: ≤ 4.8 V (margin)

The ATmega328P ADC requires a source impedance ≤ 10 kΩ for accurate conversion.

## Choosing Divider Ratio 

$$ V_{ADC,max}​=V_{IN,max}​*{R2\over R1​+R2}​​​≤4.8V $$
$$ {R2\over R1 + R2} ≤ {4.8\over 15} = 0.32 $$

## Choosing Practical Resistor Values

### Constraints:
- Uses common E12/E24 values
- Keeps source impedance ≤ 10kΩ
- Minimises power dissipation

The choice of resistors I will use are R1 = 22 kΩ and R2 = 10 kΩ (ratio = 0.3125). The resistor values were selected so that the ADC input voltage remains below 5 V at the maximum input voltage while also keeping below the source impedance outlined in the ATmega328P ADC specification. Common resistor values are used to simplify prototyping.

### Checking Scaling:

$$ V_{ADC, max} = 15 * {10\over 22 + 10} = 4.69V $$

4.69 V ≤ 4.8 V, so we have a safe margin.

## Checking Source Impedance

$$ R_{source} = R1 || R2 ≈ 6.9kΩ $$

6.9 kΩ ≤ 10 kΩ therefore our source impedance is within the ADC spec.

## Checking Power Dissipation

Worst case current:

$$ I = {15\over 32kΩ} ≈ 0.47mA $$

Power in R1:

$$ P ≈ 5mW $$

This is well below the limits of the system.

## Resolution Analysis

ADC step size: 

$$ LSB = {5V\over 1023} ≈ 4.88mV $$

At the input: 

$$ LSB_{input} = {4.88\over 0.3125} ≈ 15.6mV $$

This matches the resolution target of ≥ 10 mV.​​​

Commit message:

Update voltage_divider.md to include effect of series resistor
Testing with the implemented calibration strategy made it apparent that I hadn't accommodated for Rseries.

hardware/calculations/voltage_divider.md, after:

# Voltage Divider Calculations

## Assumptions
- Maximum input voltage: 15 V DC
- MCU: ATmega328P (Seeeduino Lotus)
- ADC reference voltage: 5 V (default)
- Target ADC max input: ≤ 4.8 V (margin)

The ATmega328P ADC requires a source impedance ≤ 10 kΩ for accurate conversion.

## Choosing Divider Ratio 

$$ V_{ADC,max}​=V_{IN,max}​*{R2\over R1​+R2}​​​≤4.8V $$
$$ {R2\over R1 + R2} ≤ {4.8\over 15} = 0.32 $$

## Choosing Practical Resistor Values

### Constraints:
- Uses common E12/E24 values
- Keeps source impedance ≤ 10kΩ
- Minimises power dissipation

The choice of resistors I will use are R1 = 22 kΩ and R2 = 10 kΩ (ratio = 0.3125). The resistor values were selected so that the ADC input voltage remains below 5 V at the maximum input voltage while also keeping below the source impedance outlined in the ATmega328P ADC specification. Common resistor values are used to simplify prototyping.

### Checking Scaling:

$$ V_{ADC, max} = 15 * {10\over 22 + 10} = 4.69V $$

4.69 V ≤ 4.8 V, so we have a safe margin.

## Checking Source Impedance

$$ R_{source} = R1 || R2 ≈ 6.9kΩ $$

6.9 kΩ ≤ 10 kΩ therefore our source impedance is within the ADC spec.

## Checking Power Dissipation

Worst case current:

$$ I = {15\over 32kΩ} ≈ 0.47mA $$

Power in R1:

$$ P ≈ 5mW $$

This is well below the limits of the system.

## Resolution Analysis

ADC step size: 

$$ LSB = {5V\over 1023} ≈ 4.88mV $$

At the input: 

$$ LSB_{input} = {4.88\over 0.3125} ≈ 15.6mV $$

This matches the resolution target of ≥ 10 mV.

## Effect of Series Resistor

Rseries is in series with the voltage divider, therefore it is significant in calculations. The updated divider ratio to accomodate this is:

$$ V_{midpoint} = V_{in} * {R_2 \over R_{series} + R_1 + R_2 } $$

$$ V_{in} = V_{midpoint} * {33k \over 10k} = V_{midpoint} * 3.3 $$

​​​
